
Passwords are extremely important. However oftentimes their importance is underestimated and taken for granted. Sure, we us passwords to secure our cat photos, recipe collections and promotional emails from out favorite online marketplaces. But our passwords also secure things of much greater importance like financial documents, precious family photos and social media accounts. 

A secure password follows a relatively simple set of rules. You want your password to be long (the longer the better), complex, and random. A good password is very long, I’m talking like 25 or more characters. The longer the password the longer it takes a password cracking algorithm to iterate through every possibility. The unfortunate thing is: passwords aren’t enough any more. 

You see, most people use the same password everywhere, or maybe they have a few they rotate through. These passwords might even be reasonably “strong” with a combination of upper and lower case, numbers and special symbols. Not even this can be relied on. The problem stems from this re-use of passwords. Let’s set forth a scenario. 


Lets say Karen has used the same password her entire digital life. She uses this password for her Online Banking, her Facebook account and any number of other accounts she has signed up for over the years. Let’s say Karen signs up for an account with an online retailer so she can buy dog treats for man’s best friend. She signs up, makes a purchase and promptly forgets abut the website altogether. 3 years pass and Karen’s Facebook account gets hacked. Her friends start getting strange messages from her asking for money, or to go to a sketchy website that infects their comouter with a virus. Karen has no idea whats happened. Next her bank account gets logged into and her entire balance is transferred to an overseas account. 

So, what happened? Remember that account Karen created to buy dog treats? That website’s user database was hacked. They now have an enormous list of every one of their user’s email addresses and passwords. And remember, Karen uses the same password everywhere, so now the crooks took this email and password combination and tried it on every website they could think of.

This problem is easily mitigated. If Karen had used a different password on each website this wouldnt have been a problem, easy right? Well it seems easy on the surface but think lf just how many online accounts any given person has. I myself have over 75 different accounts. That’s a lot of passwords to remember, especially if we want them to be completey different than each other.

This is where a password manager comes in. A Password Manager is a program and/or website that keeps track of all your usernames, emails and passwords in one place. This allows you to offload the chore of remembering all 75+ of your passwords to this single service. Most password managers will also help you generate a fresh password.

