---
title: Nerf Timed Deathmatch
layout: default
tags: nerf game
published: false
---

I recently had a chance to try out one of the simplest game types from my recent [game types post](/2019/1/9/nerf-game-types), the standard Deathmatch. A bit of background on my group: we play inside a church usually after dark with the majority of lights off. We have nearly full-reign of the church with select rooms closed and off-limits. The church is roughly an L shape with 3 sets of stairs: one set at each end and one at the corner. We use both the upstairs and downstairs.

I think it would be more accurately named the "Timed Deathmatch" to make a clearer distinction from the other types of deathmatch. In case you missed my other post, here's the basics of the Timed Deathmatch game type:

>2 teams, each have a respawn location. Decide on a time frame and set a timer. When hit with a nerf dart/HIR the player goes to their respawn point, waits 15 seconds and returns to battle. Players keep track of their deaths. The team with the most kills wins/the team with the most deaths loses.

Our group decided on a 30-minute game. We started by separating into teams (we just used the same teams the entire night for consistency), and designating a respawn point for each team. We separated the respawn points to nearly equivalent rooms, one upstairs and one down. To start the game a member from each team set a timer on their phones to know when the game was over. we set it for 32 minutes to give us 2 minutes to get to our respawn points, with combat starting at the 30 minute mark.

We played for the entire 30 minutes, which was surprisingly exhilerating. This gamemode stood out to everyone as a good balanced mode that was able to be played and enjoyed by everyone present. With other deathmatch game types we had found that it was too easy to get picked off at the beginning and run out lives leaving you to sit bored while everyone else continued play. This gamemode allows everyone on both teams to paly near-constantly and never have a moment of boredom, unless self-induced. The length of the game is also welcomed as the time in-between rounds is often filled with banter and time-wasting in general. I've found these time-based game types are very popular with our group having also played "Transfer" in the past (find the description here). Games like Zombies also go over very well due to their everyone-plays-all-the-time style. 

Timed Deathmatch was a success! It allows for balanced game play with evenly skilled teams. It lets everyone play for the entire game with nobody getting left behind and not incentivizing players to cower in a corner for fear of getting "out". Timed Deathmatch also allows us to play for a long period of uninterupted time. Ultimately this game type has been solidifed as a staple to our groups wars alongside Zombies and Transfer. I can't wait to play it again!
